.TH greyhole 1  "12/10/2012" "Greyhole %VERSION%" "Greyhole - Redundant Storage Pool using Samba"
.SH NAME
greyhole \- control your Greyhole storage pool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B greyhole
[ACTION] [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Greyhole is an application that uses Samba to create a storage pool of 
all your available hard drives (whatever their size, however they're 
connected), and allows you to create redundant copies of the files you 
store, in order to prevent data loss when part of your hardware fails.
.PP
The greyhole command allows you to monitor and interact with the 
Greyhole daemon, and thus control your Greyhole storage pool.
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
\-?, \-\-help
Display help and exit.
.TP
\-D, \-\-daemon
Start the daemon.
.TP
\-D, \-\-pause
Pause the daemon.
.TP
\-D, \-\-resume
Resume a paused daemon.
.TP
\-f, \-\-fsck
Schedule a fsck.
.TP
\-C, \-\-cancel\-fsck
Cancel any ongoing or scheduled fsck operations.
.TP
\-F, \-\-print\-fsck
Print the fsck report for the last completed fsck task. This will print the
same content that is sent by email when the --email-report option is used.
.TP
\-l, \-\-balance
Balance available space on storage pool drives.
.TP
\-\-balance\-status
Verify how balanced are the storage pool drives.
.TP
\-C, \-\-cancel\-balance
Cancel any ongoing or scheduled balance operations.
.TP
\-s, \-\-stats
Display storage pool statistics.
.TP
\-i, \-\-iostat
I/O statistices for your storage pool drives.
.TP
\-L, \-\-logs
Display new greyhole.log entries as they are logged.
.TP
\-S, \-\-status
Display what the Greyhole daemon is currently doing.
.TP
\-q, \-\-view\-queue
Display the current work queue.
.TP
\-a, \-\-empty\-trash
Empty the trash.
.TP
\-\-mv source target
Move a folder or file from one Greyhole share to another.
Run without parameters for details.
.TP
\-b, \-\-debug=filename
Debug past file operations.
.TP
\-t, \-\-thaw[=path]
Thaw a frozen directory. Greyhole will start working on files 
inside <path>. If you don't supply an option, the list of frozen 
directories will be displayed.
.TP
\-w, \-\-wait\-for[=path]
Tell Greyhole that the missing drive at <path> will return soon, 
and that it shouldn't re\-create additional file copies to 
replace it. If you don't supply an option, the available options 
(paths) will be displayed.
.TP
\-g, \-\-gone[=path]
Tell Greyhole that the missing drive at <path> is gone for good. 
Greyhole will start replacing the missing file copies instantly. 
If you don't supply an option, the available options (paths) 
will be displayed.
.TP
\-n, \-\-going[=path]
Tell Greyhole that you want to remove a drive. Greyhole will
then make sure you don't lose any files, and that the correct
number of file copies are created to replace the missing drive. 
If you don't supply an option, the available options (paths) 
will be displayed.
.TP
\-r, \-\-replace[=path]
Tell Greyhole that you replaced the drive at <path>. This is not 
necessary if you used \-\-gone or \-\-going to remove the drive.
.TP
\-X, \-\-fix-symlinks
Try to find a good file copy to point to for all broken
symlinks found on your shares.
.TP
\-p, \-\-delete-metadata<=path>
Delete all metadata files for <path>, which should be a
share name, followed by the path to a file that is gone
from your storage pool.
.TP
\-U, \-\-remove-share<=share_name>
Move the files currently inside the specified share from the
storage pool into the shared folder (landing zone),
effectively removing the share from Greyhole's storage pool.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
For \-\-stats and \-\-view-queue, the available OPTIONS are:
.TP
\-j, \-\-json
Output the result as JSON, instead of human-readable text.

.TP
For \-\-fsck, the available OPTIONS are:
.TP
\-e, \-\-email\-report
Send an email when fsck completes, to report on what was
checked, and any error that was found.
.TP
\-y, \-\-dont\-walk\-metadata\-store
Speed up fsck by skipping the scan of the metadata store
directories. Scanning the metadata stores is only required to
re\-create symbolic links that might be missing from your shared 
directories.
.TP
\-c, \-\-if\-conf\-changed
Only fsck if greyhole.conf or smb.conf paths changed since the 
last fsck. Used in the daily cron to prevent unneccesary fsck 
runs.
.TP
\-d, \-\-dir=path
Only scan a specific directory, and all sub\-directories. The
specified directory should be a Samba share, a sub\-directory of 
a Samba share, or any directory on a storage pool drive.
.TP
\-o, \-\-find\-orphaned\-files
Scan for files with no metadata in the storage pool drives.
This will allow you to include existing files on a drive in your 
storage pool without having to copy them manually.
.TP
\-k, \-\-checksums
Read ALL files in your storage pool, and check that file copies 
are identical. This will identify any problem you might have 
with your file\-systems.
.RS 7
NOTE: this can take a LONG time to complete, since it will read
everything from all your drives!
.RE 0
.TP
\-m, \-\-delete\-orphaned\-metadata
When fsck find metadata files with no file copies, delete those
metadata files. If the file copies re\-appear later, you'll need
to run fsck with \-\-find\-orphaned\-files to have them reappear in
your shares.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Remove a drive from your pool, to later replace it:
.B greyhole
\-\-going=/mnt/hdd4/gh
.PP
.TP
Monitor the Greyhole daemon by looking at the log entries:
.B greyhole
\-\-logs
.PP
.TP
Schedule a fsck for the Movies folder found in the Videos share:
.B greyhole
\-\-email-report \-\-dir=/shares/Videos/Movies
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
greyhole returns a zero exit status if the command succeeds.
.RS 0
Non zero is returned in case of failure.
.SH AUTHORS
Guillaume Boudreau	<guillaume (at) greyhole.net>
.RS 0
Andrew Hopkinson	<andrew (at) greyhole.net>
.SH SEE ALSO
greyhole.conf(5)
.RS 0
/usr/share/greyhole/USAGE
.SH WEBSITE
\fIhttps://www.greyhole.net\fR
