.TH greyhole.conf 5  "02/05/2012" "Greyhole %VERSION%" "File Formats and Conventions"
.SH NAME
greyhole.conf \- The configuration file for Greyhole
.SH SYNOPSIS
The greyhole.conf file is the configuration file for Greyhole.
The complete description of the file format and possible parameters held within are here for reference purposes.
.SH FILE FORMAT
.TP
The file consists of a list of paramaters. The order of the parameters in the file is not important, unless noted otherewise. Parameters use the form:
.PP
.RS
\fIname\fR = \fIvalue\fR
.RE
.TP
The file is line-based - that is, each newline-terminated line represents either a comment, a parameter or parameter values (exceptionally).
.PP
Any line beginning with a hash (#) character is ignored, as are lines containing only whitespace.
.PP
The values following the equals sign in parameters are all either a string (no quotes needed) or a boolean, which may be given as \fByes\fR/\fBno\fR, \fB1\fR/\fB0\fR or \fBtrue\fR/\fBfalse\fR. Case is not significant in boolean values, but is preserved in string values. Some parameters values are numeric.
.SH PARAMETERS
	
.RS 0
db_engine
.RE
.RS 0
db_host
.RE
.RS 0
db_user
.RE
.RS 0
db_pass
.RE
.RS 0
db_name
.RE
.RS 0
db_path
.RE
.PP
.RS 4
The database to use for the Greyhole tasks queue & settings. Available engines: \fBmysql\fR (recommended), \fBsqlite\fR
.RS 0
\fINo defaults\fR.
.RE
.PP
When using \fBmysql\fR, you will need to specify a \fBdb_host\fR (normally localhost), \fBdb_user\fR, \fBdb_pass\fR and \fBdb_name\fR. The user and database should already exist, per the USAGE instructions.
.PP
When using \fBsqlite\fR, only \fBdb_path\fR is used, and it should be the full path to a sqlite file that will be created by Greyhole.
.PP
Example: \fIdb_engine = mysql\fR
.RS 9
\fIdb_host	= localhost\fR
.RE
.RS 9
\fIdb_user	= greyhole_user\fR
.RE
.RS 9
\fIdb_pass	= 89y63jdwe\fR
.RE
.RS 9
\fIdb_name	= greyhole\fR
.RE
.RE

email_to
.PP
.RS 4
Will receive email reports for daily fsck, or when all drives are out of available space.
When specifying no @hostname, the email will be delivered to the local mailbox of that user.
To send emails to a remote mail server, you'll need to make sure you can send emails from the command line, for example using the \fBmail\fR command.
.RS 0
Default is \fBroot\fR.
.RE
.PP
Examples: \fIemail_to = you@gmail.com\fR
.RS 10
\fIemail_to = root\fR
.RE
.RE

daemon_niceness
.PP
.RS 4
(Numeric) Niceness of the background daemon that handle most of the heavy lifting.
Number between -20 and 19.
The higher the number, the more 'nice' the daemon will be, i.e. the less
resources it will get, versus other processes with a lower niceness.
.RS 0
Default is \fB1\fR.
.RE
.RE

greyhole_log_file
.PP
.RS 4
Where the Greyhole daemon will log what it does.
.RS 0
You can specify \fBsyslog\fR to have the daemon log using (r)syslogd instead of logging to a file.
.RE
.RS 0
Default is \fB/var/log/greyhole.log\fR.
.RE
.PP
Examples: \fIgreyhole_log_file = /var/log/greyhole.log\fR
.RS 10
\fIgreyhole_log_file = syslog\fR
.RE
.RE

log_level
.PP
.RS 4
Available verbosity levels: DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR
.RS 0
Note that for --status to work correctly, you'll need to keep this to DEBUG.
.RE
.RS 0
Default is \fBDEBUG\fR.
.RE
.RE

log_memory_usage
.PP
.RS 4
(Boolean) Log Greyhole memory usage on each log line.
.RS 0
Default is \fBno\fR.
.RE
.RE

check_for_open_files
.PP
.RS 4
(Boolean) Look for other processes working on files on the Greyhole shares.
Disable to get more speed, but this might break some files, if any application change your files while Greyhole tries to work on them.
.RS 0
Default is \fByes\fR.
.RE
.RE

storage_pool_drive
.PP
.RS 4
Where the file copies will be stored.
You probably want to list all your physical hard drives here.
.RS 0
Also specify how much free space you want to reserve on each drive. This is 
a soft limit that will be ignored if the necessary hard drives are below 
their minimum.
.RE
.RS 0
For example, if you specify a 100 GB limit on all drives, and only one still 
have more than 100 GB of free space, and you save a new file on a share for 
which you specified you want multiple copies, this drive will be used first, 
but the other drives that have less free space will be used to store the 
additional copies.
.RE
.PP
The syntax for the value is:
.RS 4
\fIpath\fR, min_free: \fI##\fRgb
.RE
.PP
Example: \fIstorage_pool_drive = /mnt/hdd0/gh, min_free: 10gb\fR
.RE

allow_multiple_sp_per_device
.PP
.RS 4
(Boolean) This can help you test Greyhole by defining multiple storage_pool_drive that are in fact just empty directories on the same drive.
WARNING! Do NOT enable that option when you're not testing Greyhole. Doing so could result is lost data when a drive will fail.
.RS 0
Default is \fBno\fR.
.RE
.RE

num_copies[ShareName]
.PP
.RS 4
(Numeric) Number of copies of each file you want Greyhole to keep, for files in \fBShareName\fR.
This is not the number of duplicates! 2 copies = 1 duplicate.
.RS 0
If you change one of those, you should run fsck manually, or wait for the daily fsck, to have the additional copies created, or extra copies deleted.
.RE
.RS 0
You can use the special keyword \fBmax\fR to have copies of those files on all your drives.
.RE
.PP
Examples: \fInum_copies[RecordedTV] = 1\fR
.RS 10
\fInum_copies[Music]	   = 2\fR
.RE
.RS 10
\fInum_copies[Photos]	   = max\fR
.RE
.RE

drive_selection_groups
.PP
.RS 4
The groups you define here will be available to use in the drive_selection_algorithm option(s) below.
The group names (OK, NEW, BROKEN, REMOTE in the example below) can be anything you'd like.
Use one line per group, with the following syntax:
.PP
.RS 4
\fIgroup_name\fR: \fIstorage_pool_drive\fR[,\fIstorage_pool_drive\fR[,...]]
.RE
.PP
Define the first group on the same line as \fBdrive_selection_groups\fR, and other groups below it, without the parameter name.
.PP
If you ommit any storage pool drive from your groups, this drive will NOT be used by Greyhole!
.PP
See \fIhttp://greyhole.net/wiki/drive_selection_groups\fR on how we suggest you use this feature.
.PP
Examples: \fIdrive_selection_groups = OK: /mnt/hdd0/gh, /mnt/hdd2/gh\fR
.RS 35
\fINEW: /mnt/hdd1/gh\fR
.RE
.RS 35
\fIBROKEN: /mnt/hdd3/gh\fR
.RE
.RS 35
\fIREMOTE: /mnt/remote1/gh\fR
.RE
.PP
You can also define drive_selection_groups for specific shares:
.PP
.RS 3
\fIdrive_selection_groups[Photos] = SATA: /mnt/hdd0/gh\fR
.RE
.RS 36
\fIIDE: /mnt/hdd1/gh, /mnt/hdd2/gh\fR
.RE
.RS 36
\fIUSB: /mnt/hdd3/gh\fR
.RE
.RE

drive_selection_algorithm
.PP
.RS 4
Available algorithms: most_available_space, random, forced
.TP
\fBmost_available_space\fR: use the drives with the most available space 
first, so that available space on all drives should become and stay balanced.
.TP
\fBrandom\fR: use a random drive with available space
.TP
\fBforced\fR: use the drive_selection_groups you defined previously. The syntax for using \fBforced\fR is:
.PP
.RS 4
\fIforced\fR (\fI#\fRx\fIgroup_name\fR[, \fI#\fRx\fIgroup_name\fR[, ...]]) [\fImost_available_space\fR|\fIrandom\fR]
.RE
.PP
Use the \fBforced\fR keyword, then list the groups you want to use, in order, and 
prefix each \fBgroup_name\fR with the number of drives you want to use from 
that group before using the next group.
Use the \fBall\fR keyword to indicate you want Greyhole to use all drives 
from a specific group before starting to use drives from the next group.
You'll need to indicate how Greyhole should pick drives within a group by 
ending your line with either \fBmost_available_space\fR or \fBrandom\fR.
.PP
Examples: \fIdrive_selection_algorithm = forced (1xOK, 1xNEW, 1xBROKEN, 1xREMOTE) most_available_space\fR
.PP
You can also define drive_selection_algorithm for specific shares:
.PP
.RS 4
\fIdrive_selection_algorithm[Videos] = random\fR
.RE
.RS 4
\fIdrive_selection_algorithm[Photos] = forced (all SATA, 1xIDE, 1xUSB) random\fR
.RE
.RE

sticky_files
.RS 0
stick_into
.RE
.PP
.RS 4
Sticky files are files that will always \fIlive\fR together, in the storage pool. That is, 
each copy of the files will be stored on the same storage pool drive(s).
.PP
This will allow you to read (and read-only!) those files by using the 
storage pool drives themselves, instead of using the mounted shares.
To see when that might be useful, see \fIhttp://code.google.com/p/greyhole/issues/detail?id=3\fR
.PP
Each \fBsticky_files\fR line should start with the name of a share, followed by a 
directory inside that share. All files in the specified directory, and all sub-directories, will then be kept together.
.PP
One or more \fBstick_into\fR lines should follow each \fBsticky_files\fR line, if you 
want the files to go on specific hard drive(s).
If you don't specify any \fBstick_into\fR, the drive with the most free space will 
be use to hold your files together.
.PP
Note that if you already have files in the specified directory, you'll need to use 
\fB--balance\fR to move the file copies together.
.PP
Example: \fIsticky_files = Videos/Movies/Kids/\fR
.RS 11
\fIstick_into = /mnt/hdd1/gh\fR
.RE
.RS 11
\fIstick_into = /mnt/hdd5/gh\fR
.RE
.RE

df_cache_time
.PP
.RS 4
(Numeric) How long should free space calculations be cached (in seconds).
.RS 0
When selecting drives using their available / free space, the last cached 
value will be used.
.RE
.RS 0
Use 0 to disable caching.
.RE
.RS 0
Default is \fB15\fR.
.RE
.RE

delete_moves_to_trash
.PP
.RS 4
(Boolean) Move deleted files to trash, instead of deleting them.
You can specify per-share preferences that will override the global 
preference.
.RS 0
Default is \fByes\fR.
.RE
.PP
Examples: \fIdelete_moves_to_trash = yes\fR
.RS 10
\fIdelete_moves_to_trash[CrashPlan] = no\fR
.RE
.RE

frozen_directory
.PP
.RS 4
Directories listed in \fBfrozen_directory\fR will not be touched by Greyhole until the user 
\fIthaw\fR them using \fIgreyhole --thaw=<dir>\fR.
.PP
This can be used to process often-updated files at regular intervals, 
instead of having Greyhole process them as soon as they change.
.PP
Each frozen_directory line should start with the name of a share, followed 
by a optional directory inside that share.
.PP
Examples: \fIfrozen_directory = Data/mysql\fR
.RS 10
\fIfrozen_directory = VirtualMachines\fR
.RE
.RE

max_queued_tasks
.PP
.RS 4
(Numeric) Maximum number of queued tasks to store in MySQL/SQLite, when parsing the 
spool directory. Use a lower number if you experience slowness while parsing 
spooled operations.
.RS 0
Default is \fB10000000\fR when using Mysql (\fBdb_engine\fR), and \fI1000\fR when using SQLite.
.RE
.RE

memory_limit
.PP
.RS 4
Maximum amount of memory that the Greyhole daemon can consume while running.
.RS 0
This can be higher than the memory_limit set in php.ini.
.RE
.RS 0
If the Greyhole daemon reaches this limit, it will log an error and stop.
.RE
.RS 0
It is NOT advisable to lower the memory limit below 128M.
.RE
.RS 0
Default is \fB128M\fR.
.RE
.RE

copy_method
.PP
.RS 4
This defines what command-line tool is used to create file copies.
.RS 0
Possible values: \fBcp\fR, \fBrsync\fR
.RE
.RS 0
cp is less CPU-intensive, and generally faster than rsync, which is still 
available for historic reasons.
.RE
.RS 0
Default is \fBcp\fR.
.RE
.RE

include
.PP
.RS 4
This allows you to include one config file inside another.
If the included file is executable, and writable only by the root user, it will be executed, and the output will be included in greyhole.conf.
Otherwise, the file will be included literally, as though typed in place.
.RS 0
An included config file can contain other include parameters, thus allowing recursive inclusions.
.PP
Examples: \fIinclude = /etc/greyhole.d/storage_drives\fR
.RS 10
\fIinclude = /etc/greyhole.d/greyhole_shares.sh\fR
.RE
.RE

.SH AUTHORS
Guillaume Boudreau	<guillaume (at) greyhole.net>
.RS 0
Andrew Hopkinson	<andrew (at) greyhole.net>
.SH SEE ALSO
greyhole(1)
.RS 0
/usr/share/greyhole/USAGE
.SH WEBSITE
\fIhttp://www.greyhole.net\fR
